Welcome The Thoughts on the market.
I'm Michael Jesus,
Head of Global Thematic and Public
Policy Research for Morgan Stanley.
Along with my colleagues bringing
you a variety of perspectives,
I'll be talking about the
intersection between public
policy and financial markets.
It's Thursday,
November 10th at 3:00 PM in New York.
It's nearly two full days after
polls closed across America,
and we still don't know which
party will control Congress.
But for investors, we very likely know
all we need to know at this point.
Let me explain.
It may take several days,
maybe weeks, to determine which
party will control the Senate.
But knowing which party controls
the Senate won't matter much if
Republicans gain a majority in
the House of Representatives,
as they appear likely to
do as of this recording,
That's because Republicans controlling
at least one Chamber of Congress is
enough to yield a divided government,
meaning that the party in
control of the White House.
That also in control of Congress
and so can't unilaterally
choose its legislative path.
For bond markets,
this is a mostly friendly outcome.
It takes off the table the scenario
that could have led to fiscal
policy from Congress that would cut
against the Fed's inflation goals.
That scenario would have been one more
Democrats keep control of the House
and expand their Senate Majority.
That outcome might have suggested
inflation was less a political and
electoral concern than previously
thought and through a broader Senate
Majority given Democrats more rude to
legislate if markets perceived that.
Combination of a willingness and
ability to legislate is increasing
the probability of enacting spending
measures like a child tax credit
that would support aggregate
demand in the US economy.
Then investors would also have to
price in the possibility of a higher
than expected peak Fed funds rate,
pushing Treasury yields higher.
Of course,
this appears not to be what happened.
So the bottom line the election outcome
is important and still up in the air,
but markets may know enough to move on.
Thanks for listening.
If
you enjoy the show, please share
thoughts on the market with a friend or
colleague or leave us a review on Apple.
Podcasts helps more people find the show. The
proceeding content is informational
only and based on information
available when created.
It is not an offer or solicitation,
nor is it tax or legal advice.
It does not consider your financial
circumstances and objectives and
may not be suitable for you.